******
Acid Splash
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a bubble of acid. Choose one creature within
range, or choose two creatures within range that are
within 5 feet of each other. A target must succeed on a
Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 acid damage.
This spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach
5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).
******
Aid
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny strip of white cloth)
Duration: 8 hours
Your spell bolsters your allies with toughness and
resolve. Choose up to three creatures within range.
Each target’s hit point maximum and current hit points
increase by 5 for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, a target’s hit points
increase by an additional 5 for each slot level above 2nd.
******
Antimagic Field
8th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot-radius sphere)
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron or
iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A 10-foot-radius invisible sphere of antimagic surrounds
you. This area is divorced from the magical energy that
suffuses the multiverse. Within the sphere, spells can’t
be cast, summoned creatures disappear, and even magic
items become mundane. Until the spell ends, the sphere
moves with you, centered on you.
Spells and other magical effects, except those created
by an artifact or a deity, are suppressed in the sphere
and can’t protrude into it. A slot expended to cast
a suppressed spell is consumed. While an effect is
suppressed, it doesn’t function, but the time it spends
suppressed counts against its duration.
Targeted Effects. Spells and other magical effects,
such as magic missile and charm person, that target
a creature or an object in the sphere have no effect on
that target.
Areas of Magic. The area of another spell or magical
effect, such as fireball, can’t extend into the sphere.
If the sphere overlaps an area of magic, the part of
the area that is covered by the sphere is suppressed.
For example, the flames created by a wall of fire are
suppressed within the sphere, creating a gap in the wall
if the overlap is large enough.
Spells. Any active spell or other magical effect on a
creature or an object in the sphere is suppressed while
the creature or object is in it.
Magic Items. The properties and powers of
magic items are suppressed in the sphere. For
example, a +1 longsword in the sphere functions as a
nonmagical longsword.
A magic weapon’s properties and powers are
suppressed if it is used against a target in the sphere or
wielded by an attacker in the sphere. If a magic weapon
or a piece of magic ammunition fully leaves the sphere
(for example, if you fire a magic arrow or throw a magic
spear at a target outside the sphere), the magic of the
item ceases to be suppressed as soon as it exits.
Magical Travel. Teleportation and planar travel
fail to work in the sphere, whether the sphere is the
destination or the departure point for such magical
travel. A portal to another location, world, or plane of
existence, as well as an opening to an extradimensional
space such as that created by the rope trick spell,
temporarily closes while in the sphere.
Creatures and Objects. A creature or object
summoned or created by magic temporarily winks out
of existence in the sphere. Such a creature instantly
reappears once the space the creature occupied is no
longer within the sphere.
Dispel Magic. Spells and magical effects such as
dispel magic have no effect on the sphere. Likewise, the
spheres created by different antimagic field spells don’t
nullify each other.
******
Arcane Eye
4th-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of bat fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create an invisible, magical eye within range that
hovers in the air for the duration.
You mentally receive visual information from the eye,
which has normal vision and darkvision out to 30 feet.
The eye can look in every direction.
As an action, you can move the eye up to 30 feet in
any direction. There is no limit to how far away from
you the eye can move, but it can’t enter another plane of
existence. A solid barrier blocks the eye’s movement, but
the eye can pass through an opening as small as 1 inch
in diameter.
******
Arcane Lock
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth at least 25 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a closed door, window, gate, chest, or other
entryway, and it becomes locked for the duration. You
and the creatures you designate when you cast this
spell can open the object normally. You can also set a
password that, when spoken within 5 feet of the object,
suppresses this spell for 1 minute. Otherwise, it is
impassable until it is broken or the spell is dispelled or
suppressed. Casting knock on the object suppresses
arcane lock for 10 minutes.
While affected by this spell, the object is more difficult
to break or force open; the DC to break it or pick any
locks on it increases by 10.
******
Astral Projection
9th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (for each creature you affect with
this spell, you must provide one jacinth worth at least
1,000 gp and one ornately carved bar of silver worth
at least 100 gp, all of which the spell consumes)
Duration: Special
You and up to eight willing creatures within range
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the
spell fails and the casting is wasted if you are already
on that plane). The material body you leave behind is
unconscious and in a state of suspended animation; it
doesn’t need food or air and doesn’t age.
Your astral body resembles your mortal form in
almost every way, replicating your game statistics and
possessions. The principal difference is the addition of
a silvery cord that extends from between your shoulder
blades and trails behind you, fading to invisibility after
1 foot. This cord is your tether to your material body. As
long as the tether remains intact, you can find your way
home. If the cord is cut—something that can happen
only when an effect specifically states that it does—your
soul and body are separated, killing you instantly.
Your astral form can freely travel through the Astral
Plane and can pass through portals there leading to any
other plane. If you enter a new plane or return to the
plane you were on when casting this spell, your body and
possessions are transported along the silver cord, allowing
you to re-enter your body as you enter the new plane.
Your astral form is a separate incarnation. Any damage
or other effects that apply to it have no effect on your
physical body, nor do they persist when you return to it.
The spell ends for you and your companions when
you use your action to dismiss it. When the spell ends,
the affected creature returns to its physical body,
and it awakens.
The spell might also end early for you or one of your
companions. A successful dispel magic spell used
against an astral or physical body ends the spell for that
creature. If a creature’s original body or its astral form
drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends for that creature. If
the spell ends and the silver cord is intact, the cord pulls
the creature’s astral form back to its body, ending its
state of suspended animation.
If you are returned to your body prematurely, your
companions remain in their astral forms and must find
their own way back to their bodies, usually by dropping
to 0 hit points.
******
Augury
2nd-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones,
or similar tokens worth at least 25 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
By casting gem-inlaid sticks, rolling dragon bones,
laying out ornate cards, or employing some other
divining tool, you receive an omen from an otherworldly
entity about the results of a specific course of action that
you plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM
chooses from the following possible omens:
• Weal, for good results
• Woe, for bad results
• Weal and woe, for both good and bad results
• Nothing, for results that aren’t especially good or bad
The spell doesn’t take into account any possible
circumstances that might change the outcome, such
as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain of
a companion.
If you cast the spell two or more times before
completing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25
percent chance for each casting after the first that you
get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.
******
Beacon of Hope
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell bestows hope and vitality. Choose any
number of creatures within range. For the duration,
each target has advantage on Wisdom saving throws
and death saving throws, and regains the maximum
number of hit points possible from any healing.
******
Blade Barrier
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sharp blades
made of magical energy. The wall appears within range
and lasts for the duration. You can make a straight wall
up to 100 feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a
ringed wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and
5 feet thick. The wall provides three-quarters cover to
creatures behind it, and its space is difficult terrain.
When a creature enters the wall’s area for the first
time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 6d10 slashing damage. On a successful
save, the creature takes half as much damage.
******
Bless
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a sprinkling of holy water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You bless up to three creatures of your choice within
range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a
saving throw before the spell ends, the target can roll
a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or
saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st.
******
Blur
2nd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body becomes blurred, shifting and wavering to
all who can see you. For the duration, any creature has
disadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attacker
is immune to this effect if it doesn’t rely on sight,
as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as
with truesight.
******
Burning Hands
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and
fingers spread, a thin sheet of flames shoots forth from
your outstretched fingertips. Each creature in a 15-foot
cone must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
The fire ignites any flammable objects in the area that
aren’t being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
******
Chain Lightning
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur; a piece of amber,
glass, or a crystal rod; and three silver pins)
Duration: Instantaneous
You create a bolt of lightning that arcs toward a target of
your choice that you can see within range. Three bolts
then leap from that target to as many as three other
targets, each of which must be within 30 feet of the first
target. A target can be a creature or an object and can
be targeted by only one of the bolts.
A target must make a Dexterity saving throw. The
target takes 10d8 lightning damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, one additional bolt
leaps from the first target to another target for each slot
level above 6th.
******
Charm Person
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within
range. It must make a Wisdom saving throw, and does
so with advantage if you or your companions are fighting
it. If it fails the saving throw, it is charmed by you until
the spell ends or until you or your companions do
anything harmful to it. The charmed creature regards
you as a friendly acquaintance. When the spell ends, the
creature knows it was charmed by you.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you
target them.
******
Command
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You speak a one-word command to a creature you can
see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or follow the command on its next turn.
The spell has no effect if the target is undead, if it
doesn’t understand your language, or if your command
is directly harmful to it.
Some typical commands and their effects follow. You
might issue a command other than one described here.
If you do so, the DM determines how the target behaves.
If the target can’t follow your command, the spell ends.
Approach. The target moves toward you by the
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it
moves within 5 feet of you.
Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and then
ends its turn.
Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from
you by the fastest available means.
Grovel. The target falls prone and then ends its turn.
Halt. The target doesn’t move and takes no actions.
A flying creature stays aloft, provided that it is able to
do so. If it must move to stay aloft, it flies the minimum
distance needed to remain in the air.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you
target them.